.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH ETHER-WAKE 8 "December  17, 2002"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
ether-wake \- A tool to send magic WOL packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ether-wake
.RI [ options ] " MAC-Address"
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B ether-wake
commands.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBether-wake\fP is a program that generates and transmits Wake-On-LAN 
(WOL) "Magic Packet", used for restarting machines that have been
soft-powered-down (ACPI D3-warm state). It currently generates the standard
AMD Magic Packet format, with an optional password appended.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBether-wake\fP needs a single dash (´-´) in front of the option.
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-b
Send wake-up packet to the broadcast address.
.TP
.B \-D
Increase the Debug Level.
.TP
.B \-i ifname
Use interface ifname instead of the default "eth0".
.TP
.B \-p passwd
Append a four or six byte password to the packet. Only very few adapters
need or support this. The password may be also specified in ethernet hex
format (00:22:44:66:88:aa) or dotted decimal (192.168.1.1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR arp (8).
.br
.SH KNOWN BUGS
On some systems dropping root capability allows the process to be
dumped, traced or debugged.
If someone traces this program, they get control of a raw socket.
Linux handles this safely, but beware when porting this program.
.SH AUTHOR
The ether-wake program was written by Donald Becker at Scyld Computing
Corporation.
This manual page was formatted by Alain Schroeder <alain@mini.gt.owl.de>
from the on-line manual in the program.

